even for the most book obsessed of us
once life starts getting in the way
it becomes very difficult and almost
impossible
to keep up both with a growing book wish
list and with a growing task list
and this has definitely been the case
for me my name is elizabeth i'm a
medical student and an artist living in
london
and this year for a while i managed to
read about a book a day even though it
was one of the busiest years of my life
the reason i was able to do this was
because i completely changed the way
that i read and what i used to read so i
just wanted to
share my method in case you are also
interested in reading more
the main change that i did was going
from physical books to
an app called speechify speedify is an
app that lets you upload any sort of
text and it will read it out loud to you
in this video i will go through exactly
how to set things up in the app and how
it works
and perhaps more importantly exactly why
this is so game changing and how this
can completely
overthrow the way that you read and
consume books the way that you use
beautify is that you just download the
app and then you can upload any sort of
text
this can be a copy pasteable text a pdf
an epub
ibook anything basically can be uploaded
to it
and in only a few seconds it will
convert it into
an audio file the beautiful thing about
it is that you don't only have the voice
you can listen to
but also you will have the text
scrolling itself automatically through
the screen
and a highlighter going through the two
or three words that are being said at a
time
depending on your speed you can then
basically just have the app read the
book aloud to you
you can very easily adjust the speed at
which you listen to the book
and therefore you have a free audiobook
we'll bookmark things for you
automatically so you can always go back
to exactly where you left off and it
also tells you how long you have left in
the book in terms of time so that is how
you set up speechify and how it works so
it's fairly straightforward now i will
go through exactly how it changed my
reading
and why i'm able to basically read so
much if i want to first and most
significant thing i think is
speed the speed can be adjusted very
very easily i started
at around the mid 600s which i would say
is average um listening speed when i
first downloaded the app but i've been
using it consistently for months now and
at this point i am quite comfortable
with the 900 speed this is 900 words per
minute so you can go through a book very
very fast
for reference most of the books that i
read would be around one hour to two
hours with a maximum being four hours
for a very very
long book if it takes an hour and
something to read a book that's really
not a significant amount of time and you
can definitely go through one every
single day
um not that there's any reason to do
this but if you wanted to i will just
have to comment a bit on what my mom
says a lot
which is shouldn't you read books slowly
and enjoy them i
fully agree with this um i would never
use this method or read
books for fun at the speed i still use
physical books for things like virginia
woolf or
things that i read for fun which is
mostly fiction i will read very very
slowly
in a week or two and really take my time
and enjoy it
um but alongside these when there are
informational books i will read them
very very fast
and i i feel that i have some reasons to
do this um
firstly i think that informational books
have a lot of fluff
so authors will really over explain
things just to make a single point
and i feel that it's quite unnecessary
to go through the whole book at the same
level of detail or be limited by my
speed for most of the book
so when i listen to a book in speechify
i will hear it at maximum speed and then
when there's something very interesting
or a very good point being made
i will slow it right down or completely
pause the app and take my time to think
about what i've just read
and take notes on it so this way i'm
very empowered and i'm in control of
how interesting i find the book rather
than the word count the author had to
hit for example
my second comment on the speed is well
it is worth if you read
things so fast surely you must forget
all of them and
i agree with this yes i do forget most
of them but the thing is i always used
to
even if i read a book in like a month if
you would ask me half a year later what
i remember
it would not be a lot it would just be
the things i took notes on and i would
definitely need refreshers i would not
remember a lot from that book
anyway and i feel that it's the exact
same thing with speechify
so even though i read books so so fast i
still pause at the things i want to
remember
so i remember them the same amount if i
read them very very slowly or if i read
them extremely fast
so in the end of the day i don't think
that there is a significant difference
in terms of retention for me in relation
to how fast i read the book the next
benefit to using an app like speechify
is the fact that it is digital
and as you can see i do have a lot of
physical books and
i really i love them um i think there's
something really romantic
and nice to just have a paper book and
lie in bed and read it or take physical
notes which i also used to do a lot
and i was quite snobbish when it came to
ebooks before i
really hated them and you can have a lot
of benefit from having electronic books
the first being that you can read them
absolutely everywhere i do try to keep a
paper back
in my bag all the time but there are
places where
i can't use a book but i almost always
have my phone on me
so it's very convenient to have an app
on my phone if you read digital books
you can very easily copy and paste
extracts from the book online already so
i have all my book notes in notion so
they're all in one place
and i used to find so i used to take
physical notes
which looked like this so i have
notebooks and notebooks full of physical
notes that i used to take from books
i find this very very fun the thing is
it's just here in my bedroom and nowhere
else and if i'm having a talk with
someone and i think oh my god there was
this quote in this book that would be so
great to mention right now or
i really want to tell you about the
study i can't find it and it's sometimes
such a hassle
or completely impossible to find that
book extract just by googling it
so by having things on notion it's so
much easier and almost guaranteed that i
can find the resource that i need when i
need it
so i find that very very useful beyond
that and what is very important to me
is that it's so much cheaper i've spent
so much money on books and they're
really really expensive
as a student wanting to buy a book or
two or three a week
just really adds up they're like 10
pounds and above for a book so it's
quite a significant amount of money
and speechify there's so many different
plans i'm on the 40 pounds a year plan
and beyond that i don't need to pay for
anything else there's so many resources
to find free books online
and also a lot of authors give their
books online for free if you just sign
up to their newsletters so
honestly most of the books i want to
ever read i can find them online for
free anyway
so i could just download them upload
them to speechify and
listen to them that way without
basically spending any money um
and yes as a student this is a very
significant plus for me
my last point will be on speechify
versus audible
now i feel a certain way about audible i
do think that
it's honestly the gold standard when it
comes to listening to books uh because
they are actually narrated by people and
not ai machines
um nothing sounds like it they're
absolutely brilliant it's very very nice
however it's so expensive the
subscription itself is quite expensive
and it only covers one book a month
so if you want to buy another book you
would have to pay for that too
um and that adds up quite a lot the
thing that really annoys me
with audible is that they don't have the
text on the screen so if i want to take
a note
i would have to type it out go backwards
and forwards the last 15 seconds to make
sure i got every word right
and i don't have a physical copy of the
book anywhere and it's just so much
hassle
while with speechify because the text is
always on the screen i can always just
like highlight it
copy paste it and take it elsewhere and
this is so so important so i think
if i were to get free endless audible
books i probably still use speechify to
listen to non-fiction books but i would
use audible for fiction books if that
makes sense
not at four times the speed if you
haven't heard or tried speed to five
before i would definitely definitely
definitely download it it is such a good
app
you can get a free trial so you can see
if it works for you anyway if you have a
lot to read from university but you
can't be bothered to do it it's nice
just to upload it lie in bed and let
someone
read it out to you if you find that
books are too expensive this is a way to
kind of
get around that and find it for a bit
cheaper you're trying to train yourself
to read faster for whatever reason this
is a brilliant way to do that as always
if you made it to this point
thank you so much for watching i hope
you have a wonderful rest of your day
be kind to yourself and others and don't
believe everything you think thanks bye